---
title: Hello and Welcome!
date: "2019-10-09T17:43:32.169Z"
description: The first post for {dev}adventures
---

Hello and welcome to brand my new blog about my adventures in development.

I thought I would start off with a small introduction, seeing as it's my words you'll be reading on this here website. I am a Front End Developer and have been working in web development for approximately 15 years. If you hadn't guessed from my profile picture and name, I am female (she, her, hers) and a bit of a goth. In my spare time, I DJ at a club night and play guitar in a band.

But back to my professional tendencies. I started off coding websites in my spare time at school (shout out to anyone who remembers those 90s websites with brightly coloured backgrounds, marquees and random sounds!) because I enjoyed it and then turned it into a career (via a brief stint at Warwick University), which I still very much enjoy. I've used all sorts of languages and frameworks in my time as a developer, from ASP to Python and JavaScript to Perl, but these days I mostly work with JavaScript and React.

The industry is constantly moving and to keep up, you really do have to work at it. Rhe idea for this blog is to display the fruits of my study labours and by explaining them to you, making things all the more clear for myself. Nothing helps you understand something more than having to explain it to someone else.

I decided to use [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/) for this blog because I haven't used it before, but I am familiar with React and wanted to explore static site generators and JAMstack. I followed this [great tutorial](https://daveceddia.com/start-blog-gatsby-netlify/) by Dave Ceddia that goes through how to create a blog in Gatsby and how to publish it using Netlify. He also covers how to keep on blogging so I am hoping to take on board some of his advice and keep this train moving.

Hopefully I'll have some more exciting content up for you to look at in a few weeks, so check back soon! 
