---
title: I'm back!
date: "2020-07-12T11:38:00.169Z"
description: It's been a while but the blog is back
---

## Where did you go?
I know, I know - it's been ages since my last post. Apologies, things have been rather hectic for me lately. Work suddenly got a _lot_ busier and then I moved house and now this pandemic that I never imagined I would ever experience in my lifetime is happening... It's been a lot! But I'm back and I wanted to write a quick post about my plans for this blog and what you can expect over the next few months.

## What did you do?
I picked up Gatsby and Netlify again in the last few days and I made some updates:

* I did a quick bit of styling work - I'm not happy with it yet but it's better than the plain black and white that the Gatsby template ships with, at least for now
* I bought my own domain! I have been meaning to do this for the longest time. I bought it through Google because heck, Google is everywhere and it was $10 for a year or something? So not expensive
* I added Google Analytics to the site - this is so I can see whether my posts are picking up any traction and which posts people like best

## What are your plans?
I am planning on adding a load more content, but I also want to do more things under the hood. I'd like to add the ability for people to contact me, should they wish, because at the moment I am sort of just shouting into the void. I am hesitant to just put my e-mail out there because those spam bots are going to eat that up! For now, if you'd like to chat, head over to my twitter, which is listed at the end of this post.

Anyway, I am about to head out and pick up a grocery order via click and collect (as we do in the Covid times) so I'll leave it there for now - I am looking forward to digging in and getting going with this blog again.

See you soon for more programming content!